Automated Market Maker (XLS-30d) reference documentation (#1541)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: content/references/protocol-reference/transactions/transaction-types/ammwithdraw.md

---
html: ammwithdraw.html
parent: transaction-types.html
blurb: Return LPTokens into an Automated Market Maker in exchange for a share of the assets the pool holds.
labels:
  - AMM
status: not_enabled
---
# AMMWithdraw
[[Source]](https://github.com/gregtatcam/rippled/blob/amm-core-functionality/src/ripple/app/tx/impl/AMMWithdraw.cpp "Source")
<!-- TODO: Update source link to merged version when available -->

{% include '_snippets/amm-disclaimer.md' %}

> Withdraw funds an Automated Market-Maker (AMM) instance by returning the AMM's liquidity provider tokens (LP Tokens).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Withdraw assets from an Automated Market-Maker (AMM) instance by returning the AMM's liquidity provider tokens (LP Tokens).
```
I think it's better to be precise here with asset withdrawal.

    "Flags" : 1048576,
    "Sequence" : 10,
    "TransactionType" : "AMMWithdraw"
}
```

{% include '_snippets/tx-fields-intro.md' %}

| Field        | JSON Type           | [Internal Type][] | Required? | Description |
|:-------------|:--------------------|:------------------|:----------|:------------|
| `Asset`      | Object              | STIssue           | Yes       | The definition for one of the assets in the AMM's pool. In JSON, this is an object with `currency` and `issuer` fields (omit `issuer` for XRP). |
| `Asset2`     | Object              | STIssue           | Yes       | The definition for the other asset in the AMM's pool. In JSON, this is an object with `currency` and `issuer` fields (omit `issuer` for XRP). |
| `Amount`     | [Currency Amount][] | Amount            | No        | The amount of one asset to withdraw from the AMM. This must match the type of one of the assets (tokens or XRP) in the AMM's pool. |
| `Amount2`    | [Currency Amount][] | Amount            | No        | The amount of another asset to withdraw from the AMM. If present, this must match the type of the other asset in the AMM's pool and cannot be the same type as `Amount`. |

> | `EPrice`     | [Currency Amount][] | Amount            | No        | The minimum effective price, in LP Token returned, to pay per unit of the asset to withdraw. |

Reviewer 2: Is this definition of effective price correct? My understanding is that it is calculated as the ratio of the tokens swapped in vs out, giving the "effective price" of the trade. I don't think LP token quantity is a factor in the equation, but maybe i'm wrong and that works too

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I'm wrong because of the txn type (withdraw, not swap). Ignore the above

Author: In the case of a withdraw with `EPrice`, what's swapped in _is_ LP Tokens

> | `LPTokensIn` | [Currency Amount][] | Amount            | No        | How many of the AMM's LP Tokens to redeem. |

Reviewer 3: LPTokensIn --> LPTokenIn
idk, maybe LPTokenOut should be LPTokensOut.

**Note:** For a two-asset withdrawal, it is possible for `Asset` to correspond to _either_ `Amount` or `Amount2` as long as `Asset2` corresponds to the other one. It is recommended to match them (that is, `Amount2` is an amount of the asset defined in `Asset2`) because it is less confusing that way.

### AMMWithdraw Modes

> This transaction has several modes, depending on which flags you specify. Each mode expects a specific combination of fields. The modes fall into two categories: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This transaction has two withdrawal modes:
```

---
html: ammwithdraw.html
parent: transaction-types.html
blurb: Return LPTokens into an Automated Market Maker in exchange for a share of the assets the pool holds.
labels:
  - AMM
status: not_enabled
---
# AMMWithdraw
[[Source]](https://github.com/gregtatcam/rippled/blob/amm-core-functionality/src/ripple/app/tx/impl/AMMWithdraw.cpp "Source")
<!-- TODO: Update source link to merged version when available -->

{% include '_snippets/amm-disclaimer.md' %}

Withdraw funds an Automated Market-Maker (AMM) instance by returning the AMM's liquidity provider tokens (LP Tokens).

## Example {{currentpage.name}} JSON

```json
{
  "TransactionType": "AMMWithdraw",
  "AMMID": "4B82E4CB90FBE26EA172A498F7A7B03A2A7C285149A9B18731370F2644B96F7A",
  "Account": "rJVUeRqDFNs2xqA7ncVE6ZoAhPUoaJJSQm",

>   "Asset1Out": {

Reviewer 4: Replaced with `Amount/Amount2`

### AMMWithdraw Modes

This transaction has several modes, depending on which combination of fields are provided. The modes fall into two categories: 

- **Double-asset withdrawals**, in which you receive both assets from the AMM's pool in proportions that match their balances there. These withdrawals are not subject to a fee.
- **Single-asset withdrawals**, in which you receive one asset from the AMM's pool. You can envision a single-asset withdrawal as performing a double-asset deposit, then trading _some_ of the deposited asset for the other asset. The trading fee applies to the amount you would need to trade for, but not to the rest of the withdrawal. Depending on the fields specified, the amount of the fee can be added to the amount of LP Tokens paid in, or debited from the amount of the asset paid out.

The following combinations of fields indicate a **double-asset withdrawal**:

| Fields Specified                           | Meaning |
|--------------------------------------------|---------|
| No fields; `tfAMMWithdrawAll` flag enabled | Return _all_ of your LP Tokens and receive as much as you can of both assets in the AMM's pool. |

> | `LPTokensIn` only                          | Return the specified amount of LP Tokens and receive both assets from the AMM's pool in amounts based on the returned LP Tokens' share of the total LP Tokens issued. |

Reviewer 4: Flag: `tfLPToken`:0x01

> | `Asset1Out` and `Asset2Out`                | Withdraw both of this AMM's assets, in up to the specified amounts. The actual amounts received maintains the balance of assets in the AMM's pool. |

Reviewer 4: Flag `tfTwoAsset`:0x04

The following combinations of fields indicate a **single asset withdrawal**:

| Fields Specified                             | Meaning |
|----------------------------------------------|---------|

> | `Asset1Out` only                             | Withdraw exactly the specified amount of one asset, by returning as many LP Tokens as necessary. |

Reviewer 4: Flag `tfSingleAsset`:0x02.

| `Asset1Out`; `tfAMMWithdrawAll` flag enabled | Withdraw at least the specified amount of one asset, by returning _all_ of your LP Tokens. (Fails if you can't receive at least the specified amount.) |

> | `Asset1Out` and `LPTokensIn`                 | Withdraw up to the specified amount of one asset, by returning up to the specified amount of LP Tokens. |

Reviewer 4: Flag `tfOneAssetLPToken`: 0x08

> | `Asset1Out` and `EPrice`                     | Withdraw up to the specified amount of one asset, but pay no more than the specified effective price in LP Tokens per unit of the asset received. |

Reviewer 4: Flag `tfLimitLPToken`: 0x10

Any other combination of these fields is invalid.

### AMMWithdraw Flags

Transactions of the AMMWithdraw type support additional values in the [`Flags` field](transaction-common-fields.html#flags-field), as follows:

| Flag Name             | Hex Value    | Decimal Value | Description           |
|:----------------------|:-------------|:--------------|:----------------------|

> | `tfAMMWithdrawAll`    | `0x00010000` | 65536         | Withdraw as much as possible by returning all your LP Tokens. |

Reviewer 4: Changed to `tfWithdrawAll`: 0x20
